COPY

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

SUBJECT: Jewish Cultural Property 1

1. Jewish cultural properties. separated from owning individuals
and organizations in Em‘qae during the period of Nazi rule. taken into
custoch by the v.3. sanitary Government in occupied Germany. listed by
categories below and to be specifically listed in inventories and re-
ceipts. are transferred herewith to JOB. Inc.. subject to the conditions
set forth herein. The JCR will act as trustee in receiving this property
for the Jewish people and in distributing it to such public or quasi-
public religious. cultural. or educational institutions as it sees fit
to be used in the interest of perpetuating Jewish art and culture.

2. Categories of cultural properties.

The properties thus transferred are unidentifiable and
hence not the proper subject of a claim under Ian 59.
They are grouped in the followbng categories:

a. Jewish books. archives and miscellaneous documents
in various languages.

b. Torah scrolls and miscellaneous church and synagogue
vestmsnts. altar covers. prayer shawls. etc.

o. Jewish ritual objects of precious metals and including
precious stones.

d. Miscellaneous Jewish paintitgs and furnishings.

e. Such other Jewish cultural properties as 3’03 and ‘lo'ili-
tary Government shall agree to transfer. Such properties

shall be transferred upon a custody receipt which shall
contain a statement as set forth in Appendix A hereto.

3. In consideration of the fact that no claims have been received
for and no identification of prior ownership can be reasonably established
for the properties. these properties are h‘ansferred to JCR. Inc.. with
the proviso that they are to be utilized for the maintenance of the cul-
tural heritage of the Jewish people, and therefore the physical integrity
of these properties will be unintained. The Jewish ritual objects of
precious metals are to be utilized as such and not converted to monet

metal except such objects as my have been so damaged as to prevent

norml use.
